---
layout: post
title: Dexpot
date: 2012-08-03
tags: [productivity]
description: a fully featured, highly customizable virtual workspaces application.
comments: true
---

<p>
  When I first used Ubuntu, I fell in love with their 
  <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Workspace#Graphical_interfaces" target="_blank">workspaces</a>.
  The ability to open and manage multiple desktops very useful when you only have one monitor. 
  The controls were intuitive, the transitions clean and delays non-existent. 
  It was a good day.
</p>

<p>
  I later found out that Apple's OS X has the Expose and Spaces for their own version of workspaces. 
  On my sister's MacBook, it is noticeably faster, more responsive and had more features, as expected on the very well 
  designed Mac OS. As a Windows user primarily however, I felt very left out.
</p>

<p>
  After a lot of searching, I found the solution. <a href="http://dexpot.de/" target="_blank">Dexpot</a>
</p>

<p>
  They've made a lot of improvements since I've first time I used it, and right now, it's evolved into something
  beautiful. They've added much better taskbar integration, a less buggy multi-monitor support, and much, much better 
  responsiveness overall. It's a great product with a great team behind it. I'm actually preferring Dexpot to 
  Ubuntu's workspaces.
</p>

<p>
  The hotkeys are just more intuitive for one-handed productivity. Hardly anyone keeps both their hands on the keyboard unless they're 
  working exclusively in the shell. Having one hand on the mouse is a lot more flexible. But Ubuntu requires a WIN+ARROW_KEY press 
  to swap the workspace. A pretty big waste of time to move one hand over. Dexpot's solution? ALT+NUM. Simple and fast.
</p>

<p>
  Why use workspaces at all? The main benefit is clutter. Spacing out several applications over four screens is great, 
  similar to the benefits of using multiple monitors. It means you can categorize your workspaces, one section for reference applications, 
  one side for working programs, and another area for anything else. I actually use it on my dual monitor setup, and still find it useful.
  Having workspaces means keeping the programs maximized. Minimizing and maximizing requires a few more clicks, while with any virtual desktop 
  application, pressing a customized key combination, say ALT+1 or 
  WIN+DOWN_ARROW, will swap all the active applications to a new set (or carry some over depending on your preferences. It's much more convenient.
</p>

<p>
  The difference in productivity is pretty astounding. Give it a go <a href="http://dexpot.de/?id=download" target="_blank">here</a>.
</p>

<p>
    <blockquote>
      <p>
        We all have a finite number of keyboard presses in our lifetime, so we should do our best to increase the output of each press.
      </p>
      <p>
        We should try to do as much as we can with as little effort as we can manage, so we don't waste our valuable keypresses doing something that could've been done easier.
      </p>
    </blockquote>
</p>