---
title: "A Little Bit Crazy and A Little Bit Sad"
tags:
    - life
---

I have a few somewhat unrelated things I want to talk about. 

Things have gotten really crazy recently. Lots of stuff going on, lots of work to do, lots of things to think about, lots of growing up being done. Lots of sadness, but also lots of things to be happy about.

I'm a bit used to this really. I haven't had a normal school term in Waterloo since my first term, and I guess I shouldn't have been surprised that my last term would be no different. 

But to be honest, I don't think I want to have a normal term. I guess I just let it happen. The best I can do is make each term, each month better than the last. And it has.

---

I was remind of this recently.

> You are so unbelievably lucky, beyond lucky, to have even a single good friend you can count on.

I underestimate the value of my friends all the time. I have 1 friend that I've known since I was in Grade 3. He's in Waterloo right now. He's graduating the same time I do. I've known him for maybe 14, 15 years. That's 75% of my life... jeez. I have another great friend who I made in high school who I manage to keep in touch with. I've known her since Grade 10. That's 8 years? I've met one of my best friends at my first work term. I've known her 4 years now? And I managed to find a really amazing group of friends since my 3A term at Waterloo. I've known them 2 years, and they're all just as amazing.

Sometimes, I get sad that I haven't met more, that I've wasted my time not building more meaningful relationships, more meaningful friendships, more connections. And I have the audacity to say these things in front of them! To be honest, I am so truly incredibly lucky and happy that I've be able to have these relationships.

And even more amazing to me is that I have managed to fumble my way into these friends who feel a similar way about me. If you know the feeling of being a kid and sitting at a table in school and not having anyone sit beside you, you have a good idea of what I felt. Can you imagine what sort of emotions come up today, when I can sit down somewhere and my friends want to sit beside me? I've only started noticing it recently, and every time I do, my heart breaks a little.

My friend told me a story recently about how he met another intern at his workplace that really liked poker, so he mentioned that he also knew someone that played poker too much as well. The intern said that he played with someone similar at a previous work term too, and they bonded a bit over that. I had dinner with both of them when I was visiting their city where they realized I was a mutual friend. Later, they both apparently realized that *I* was that mutual poker friend they were talking about. I remember this every once in a while, and to that loser kid who no one sat with in high school, you really can't imagine how happy it makes me feel.

> All the anxiety, sadness, depression in your life takes away from the time you could spend investing in the people who really matter to you.

I know I complain a lot about what a sorry state I am in all the time, but it's really disrespectful to my friends, and they mean a lot more to me than I could have ever imagined. Really. I shouldn't be like that to them.

I have days where I don't feel like doing anything, and where I ditch my friends and their plans because "I just don't feel like it". I used to think this was okay, but of course it's worse than I imagined. First, there's the fact that our time with the people we know is so finite and limited. If you're in school, you know you'll be with them for several years, and even less if they drop out or life happens. If you're at work, you have responsibilities and different lives that make seeing each other all the time even more difficult. When we use up any of this time feeling shitty and alone, we underestimate how important this time actually is. To make things worse, I forget that time goes both ways - I can be okay wasting my own time, but wasting my friends' time is so much worse, because I care about them, and they also care about me, otherwise we wouldn't have made plans in the first place. So when I ditch them, we lose so much more together.

It's so easy to forget that both parties have to bring something to the table, and it's even easier to forget that you're one of the parties too.
