---
title: "Fear"
tags:
    - life
---

I can't sleep.

...

I don't know what I want in life.

It seems like I'm always making the wrong decisions. Going after the wrong goals. Chasing after the wrong people. Taking the wrong risks. Building towards the wrong dreams. Finding happiness in the wrong places. 

Soul-searching, but never fixing my own soul.

It makes me afraid of life. 

It makes me afraid when the value of my achievements never seems to overcome the crushing weight of my failures.

It makes me sit here at 4AM every night wondering what I'm doing with my life. Wondering why I'm chasing after a girl that doesn't want me. Wondering why I'm chasing after dreams that have never been mine. Wondering why I'm chasing after lies that I've told myself. Wondering why I feel like I'm only pretending to care about others. Wondering why I keep blogging about my lies and failures, hoping that the answer will appear. Wondering why I'm always lying about my personality, my motivations, my skills to myself and to others. It makes me wondering why I'm always floating between happy and sad and lost and alive and empty.

It makes me wonder what kind of person am I actually?

---

I just realized it's hilarious that this has come full circle.

According to some of my friends, I'm a very quotable person. I guess like being crazy with words and with gestures. 

In Grade 9 Art, my friend asked me if I was going to take the business class next term. For some reason, my response was, "who am I?" Everyone thought it was hilarious, and that was the source of a lot of jokes between us.

Looking back, I was so certain of my path. "I'd learn about technology! Something with computers!" 

But now that I've gotten deep down that rabbit hole. I'm back to square one.

"Who am I?"

---

I've had really amazing friends over the last several years. Some that have stuck by me even despite how awful I've treated them. Some that only give and give and give and give and expect nothing from me in return. Some that believe in me when I never even believed in myself. Some that push me up for no reason at all. 

I managed to find friends that accept me for who I am and push me to go forward, together, to stay alive, together. Friends that try to understand me and inspire me to work harder, that I try my hardest to understand and give back. Friends as close to a family as I have ever been able to imagine.

Friends that I will lose if I walk away.

...

I've spent years rebuilding my life, just to risk losing it all again. 

It's scary.

> How lucky I am to have something that makes saying goodbye so hard.
> 
> <cite>A. A. Milne</cite>

I don't spend enough time appreciating my friends. This is the best compliment I can hope to give. 

I never want to say goodbye to them.
