Um, there are a lot of developers on Windows. Look at how many BASIC, WPF, ASP.NET, MVC developers there are over the last two decades.

The real difference and problem here is that Android and iOS got insane traction before Microsoft turned around their mobile business properly, and now Android and iOS control enough marketshare that it makes very little business sense to develop for Windows Phone - there is no evidence WP will take off enough that it's worth it to program for, and thousands of developers are still inundated by the legacy of Microsoft that they won't even consider platforms outside of iOS and Android and Linux, or even use Microsoft products (have you seen the OpenOffice versus MS Office debates?).

That, plus thousands of students and hobbyists see very little value in developing on Microsoft because since mobile is the new flavour of the decade (like desktop was a decade ago) and Microsoft has very little presence except for the few that believe that they could carve out a niche easier on Windows Phone than on other platforms (Rudy Huyn is literally shit if you take a look at some sick iOS apps).

Even furthermore, Microsoft even has its own problems with actually making Windows Phone programmer or user friendly. Look at all the restricted APIs Windows Phone lives on. You couldn't inherit SongCollections in Windows Phone 8.0. Do you remember LongListSelector? It was supposed to be "performant"? Okay... Does drag-to-refresh exist? Why are there literally thousands of questions about "my StackPanel cuts off text instead of wrapping it"? What's a Silverlight app? Why use Universal apps? .NET stream versus RandomAccessStreams didn't get solved until 8.1? 8.1 was **ONE** year ago, and Microsoft literally shat on developers for the last 4 years with how poor so much functionality was.

You want even more? Look at your average university or college class. Now look at your average university or college *programming* class. And look at your average technology conference. What's one thing in common? Not Windows laptops, at least, not anymore. Apple is cool, Microsoft was not. Microsoft shit the bed with the race to the bottom of laptops in the last half decade. That's where Macbooks came in, like a shining ray of products that actually functioned sanely without making you bash your head about why your battery is dying in the middle of a lecture or how it takes 3 minutes to boot up and your mouse is still laggy. And that's why you have the majority of the technology community actively **moving away from using Microsoft products**. And because they move away, you have a huge proportion of technologically savvy, productivity focused users not use your product and it shows in the quality of Windows 8. Not only that, because Microsoft doesn't support other platforms, those same people find different and more focused productivity tools that allow things like Google Pages to sprout, and they've cut themselves off completely from letting Macbook users run Windows (why bother, just make OSX apps).
